[Music]  i sat down with dr joseph habusch who  conducted one of the leading studies on  chs in a public hospital emergency  department  so chs cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome  it was first described in 2004. so what  ends up happening is folks who have been  consuming cannabis for many years start  developing these weird symptoms of  nausea vomiting abdominal pain but  really uniquely all of these patients  had discovered that taking very hot  showers helped their symptoms  cannabis only does good it only does  good because that's what everyone in the  industry wants to think  when you hear about weed you never think  that it can kill you  but is that the new narrative  yes  if it wasn't for marijuana  we wouldn't have chs if it wasn't for  chs then my son wouldn't be dead in 2016  she started to feel the symptoms of chs  and in 2018 she had her first major  episode  for 14 days all day every day i threw up  non-stop a small sip of water i was  throwing it up i couldn't hold anything  down i went to urgent care twice  got ivs i was you know not throwing up  when i had an iv in me but then as soon  as urgent care would release me i go  home and i'm throwing up  i thought i was gonna die i was  so frail i couldn't even look at myself  in the mirror i was a skeleton and it  was just like  when is this gonna end the doctors  recommended that brian abstain from  consuming cannabis and he agreed to do  so for 45 days  after that he began to smoke again and  did not experience major symptoms for  six months but that would soon change  october 23rd i had woken up and brian  was sitting on the couch holding his  stomach and i said bob are you okay  he started vomiting so i called his  doctor and i  i said  i feel like i'm watching my son slowly  die  my son had lost so much weight you could  see  every bone in his body and he uh  started grabbing his back  and he said  my back hurts and instantly i thought  his kidneys  so i called  brian was laying on his side facing the  doorway  and  he said mom i can't breathe  so i roll him over  [Music]  and my son's eyes are open  and my son's not breathing  so i started doing cpr  i looked him in the eyes  and i knew he was gone  [Applause]  [Music]  i notice that it's become fashionable in  terms of public science education  for doctors to rely on argument by  analogy what i mean is this  i notice that increasingly doctors will  say with a very flippant  and relaxed attitude that  xanax is a lot like alcohol all your  nerves relax all the signals between  nerves calm down your body feels calm  your muscles relax does that sound  familiar  yeah it's the exact same mechanism that  alcohol hits so yeah  xanax is basically alcohol in a tablet i  know that they're doing this because  they're trying to make something  completely  unknown  seem comprehensible to people in the  audience by comparing it to something  they're familiar with the problem is  many people are very likely to respond  to this line of argumentation by  thinking oh well um  alcohol is no problem at all i'm  familiar with alcohol i'm not afraid of  lapsing into alcoholism myself or you  know yeah okay fine it's like oh it's  like alcohol then it's no big deal then  it's safe then it's normal then it's  fine they're not thinking in terms of an  allegory about the effects  on the nervous system they're not  thinking that from maybe from this  doctor's perspective alcohol is the drug  with the highest body count in the  united states of america alcohol kills  more people than heroin in most most  western countries at least you know they  may not be thinking that from the  doctor's perspective alcohol might be  one of the most addictive habit-forming  drugs or they may be thinking that like  alcohol  when you go through withdrawal after  you've developed tolerance or addiction  you have  delirium tremends you have uh go into  physiological shock you're actually in  danger of dying  what the doctor means but the comparison  to alcohol may be something very  troubling and very worrying indeed but  people in the audience  are really going to find this kind of  reassuring to have this drug brought  down to this easy to relate to familiar  level and of course this is done with  allegories to marijuana even more with  people presuming  that marijuana represents something safe  or at least that it's a drug where all  of the negative consequences are  are easily manageable now  i rely on allegories of this kind in  politics and history all the time if i'm  talking to someone who really knows  nothing about buddhism  i can start to discuss and describe  buddhism  in terms of its similarities to  catholicism  but pretty soon in that conversation  once i've explained a little bit about  what buddhism is a religion is like and  what it's about and so on at some point  we have to move past the allegory we  have to discard it entirely and say you  know what before i told you that  buddhism historically is similar to  catholicism and this isn't this way but  you know what the truth is  it's something profoundly alien  profoundly new  very difficult for you to understand or  relate to no offense  um  really it's something you shouldn't feel  familiar with or that you should regard  as safe uh this is something you should  actually you're actually quite right to  feel apprehensive about and alienated  from because you you really don't know  the first thing about buddhism then we  can take the next step in the  conversation i can i can maybe tell you  the first and the second thing also  there is a sense both in terms of the  objective  chemical science  and in terms of the subjective  experience  of what these drugs are like  there is a sense in which you would  really be well advised to forget any  comparison any allegory comparing  xanax to alcohol and you should regard  it with great trepidation as something  quite terrifying exotic and strange now  i emphasize here there's both an  objective and a subjective  side to the story  i've heard many youtubers  say that they find the effects of  cocaine  and  the commonly prescribed methamphetamine  adderall  to be identical  now  we can get into the chemistry of what  what objectively are the differences  between adderall and cocaine  but then it might also be worth  explaining why it is for them  subjectively  it seemed identical the high produced by  cocaine seemed exactly the same as the  high produced by adderall uh  i have heard people say here on youtube  that they found prescription adderall to  have exactly the same feeling exactly  the same effect as buying  methamphetamine on the street as an  illegal party drug again interesting  subjectively and i think we could find  some people who are experienced drug  users who would say no no no for them  subjectively these were two very  different things that these were three  or four very different things or  experiences for them in terms of how it  felt in terms of how it exp how it  affected them maybe also even specific  things like how it disrupted their sleep  how it disrupted their work life how it  disrupted their sex life so with all  these caveats having been stated i'd  like to challenge you in the audience to  ask yourselves  why is it  that marijuana  is not referred to  as a sedative  why is it that we think of this drug as  something profoundly different from  an addiction to sleeping pills  why is it that we think of marijuana as  something profoundly different  from an addiction to painkillers  now  the allegory is always going to be  incomplete it's always going to be in  part instructive and in part misleading  but scientifically speaking objectively  part of the effect of marijuana on your  brain  is  sedative abstract cannabis or marijuana  became legal for recreational use in  colorado in 2012 and this legislation  has created both challenges and  opportunities in medicine more patients  are using cannabis and more patients are  now willing to admit cannabis use than  in the past so this increases the  likelihood that they will be forthcoming  about drug use during medical  questioning cannabis use may have  implications during medical care  including procedural sedation  some of you might know if you have built  up a tolerance to painkillers  before you go in to have surgery  you could have the horrifying experience  of going through surgery without  sedation without relief from pain  because your body was already accustomed  to such a high dose of that type of drug  on a daily basis so it's important to be  honest with your doctors and the doctors  may not know how to sedate you or how to  provide you with anesthesia  if that is the case  so the inquiry that this  medical journal article is pursuing is  the question of whether or not marijuana  use produces a similar  tolerance  to sedatives to sedation can you guess  can you guess what the answer is  medical records from 250 patients were  reviewed and researchers found that  compared with people who did not  regularly use cannabis  people who regularly use cannabis  required an amount of sedation for  endoscopic procedures that was  significantly higher it's very difficult  to challenge the glamorization of drug  use in our culture and in our times i  know better than anyone  i know just as well as you that by  presenting drugs as something dangerous  and exciting and edgy you could end up  glamorizing them all the more even when  you're really trying to warn people this  can ruin your life  marijuana is in some ways the most  storied drug in our culture right now  and if you doubt that keep in mind bob  marley was one of the most influential  musicians of the 20th century i think  snoop dogg not far behind how many songs  were on the radio even when the drug was  illegal you know during my youth  constantly reiterating  catchphrase smoke weed every day  constantly glamorizing this as something  rebellious as something liberating and  in many many cases drug is believed to  even have kind of profound philosophical  significance in people's lives i've  recently criticized one of the leaders  of black lives matter for taking that  position  wouldn't it be in some ways useful if we  could bring marijuana down to earth by  classifying it as and insisting on it  being  not recreational  [Laughter]  not even a hallucinogen because for most  people it isn't not psychedelic now  there's a storied word what if we could  start  to educate the public about marijuana  addiction  as something that really is analogous to  getting hooked on sedatives getting  hooked on sleeping pills  getting hooked on painkillers and as  with all of these other forms of  addiction  the telltale sign is  that you build up tolerance you need  more and more of a dose in order to even  get  the same response  the second biggest problem with weed for  me was motivation i struggled with  mental illness i don't know if we talked  about it in this video if you're new but  those of you who know me yeah you know  that i struggle with mental illness  and  depression  and motivation is like a huge thing for  me  overall  i don't really want to live i don't  really  want to do things i still had motivation  but the only motivation i had was just  to get high  like i wouldn't even mind if i get the  munchies and like i was starving and i  didn't eat for two days i was just like  i can't be [ __ ] i just want to sit  here on my hammock which is not mine  even  i just want to sit on the hammock in the  sun  and get more high i'm not a man of  moderation only the best i can live i'll  experience every moment i've done drugs  man i used to sell drugs i know what's  all about  it's [ __ ] it's fake it's not real this  shit's [ __ ] real man health is real  it's never enough it was never ever ever  ever enough like i never reached that  balance i was never happy enough with  how i felt i always wanted more  and  it just [ __ ] ruined me and a lot of  people say weed is not a gateway drug  and i can't say for everyone how it is  but i know that for me  whenever i feel like it's not enough i  always think about going back to value  those of you who have not been following  me since like thailand  wouldn't necessarily know but i've had  quite a serious addiction to valium a  lot of people get off street drugs and  then go to [ __ ] prescription legal  drugs  and i don't think it's better because  you're still a [ __ ] drug user you're  still an addict you're not sober yet and  i'm not gonna lie i hoard  pills  this is so [ __ ] up i still hoard pills  and um  i have quite a stash of  valium being addicted to drugs and i  laugh because it's such an easy thing to  get out of to stop me just stop because  the more drugs you do  the more it becomes a habit  and a difference between a habit an  addiction a habit is  you know it's bad for you and you can  stop  all right an addiction is you know it's  bad you just can't stop you're just like  it's roller coaster out of control you  see how i got off [ __ ] speed meth  marijuana lsd  saw the recreational street drugs  and even prescription drugs like you  know some of the prescription you know  painkillers and stims i mean ritual and  exceptional methylphenidate these things  i feel are as  detrimental to your health to your  sanity as the street drugs  even more so because they're legal and i  don't want to make this video about my  valium addiction this is not about that  i just wanted to mention that  i nearly lost my life to my addiction  and  every time that i smoke weed and i get  this tolerance then  i i think what else can i do how can i  mix this with other things how can i  maximize this feeling how can i  you know get the next hit get the next  trip get the next i don't know and like  even then it's not enough it's never  enough [ __ ] drugs man like i've done  eminence i can speak from experience and  they [ __ ] up people's lives they [ __ ] up  people's mood coffee's a drug it's as  bad as speed it's as bad as meth  99 as bad as meth  um because it's legal and we give it to  kids and it keeps people up and okay  people that break into homes for coffee  i get that but it's  it's [ __ ] as bad as men so if you do  use any stimulants coffee tea whatever  use them rarely sparingly not every week  even  ideally only even every month and just  learn how to be to get [ __ ] done  naturally all right  learn how to do it naturally and that's  how you get off drugs man is you just  decide man you just [ __ ] decide you  change your identity you identify  yourself as someone who's clean  lean  with clean blood sharp minds [ __ ] the  haters [ __ ] the dealers [ __ ] society who  says have this have that  it's your call man it's your body one  shot drug free for life i have quit as  i've said  many times and i always came back to it  because  like the yucky  black hole in my soul is like  never satisfied  it's a journey i guess  this has been such a huge part of my  life  and i guess it still is in a way i do  want to clarify though that i'm not  against weed and honestly i'm not even  necessarily against like harder drugs  it's just that i feel like  everyone should have the  ability to choose what they want to do  with their lives be it like doing drugs  or even killing ourselves like i think i  do support that i don't really want to  live like doing drugs or even killing  ourselves like i think i do support that  however i do want to  show you guys that other possibilities  do exist i mean killing yourself is not  the only option  i'm negative and i'm dark  and i want to do bad stuff i want i want  to hang out my this neighborhood alone  that's dangerous hanging out in this  neighborhood alone right here right he  wants to kill everything he wants to  kill me too i hate myself i'm trying to  kill myself i hate myself a lot i've  been um  i haven't drank uh took drugs in six  days and for me that's a miracle  i've been lying to everybody else to  think i was sober but i'm not  it's my sixth day i'm never gonna use  again  [Applause]